# Presented a poster at ASHG2019 on missense variant pathogenicity predictors and a novel method, ClinVar Missense Impact Predictor (C-MIP)

* ABSTRACT: More than a third of rare and pathogenic mendelian variants are missense, resulting in an amino acid substitution. However, not all missense mutations are deleterious and accurately deciphering variant impact on protein function remains a challenge. Advancement of machine learning paradigms and increased availability of relevant genomic data have lead to the development of several novel methods to address this. Specifically, three core ideas have driven the development of these tools: multiple sequence alignments to evaluate conservation, prediction ensembles, and learning complex motif patterns using neural networks. We evaluated eight recent predictors that applied one or more of these core ideas (EVmutation, PrimateAI, Envision, MutationAssessor, MCAP, Polyphen2 HDIV, Polyphen2 HVAR, SIFT). We also introduce a new method, ClinVar Missense Impact Predictor (C-MIP), a gradient boosting ensemble predictor. We validated the performance of these models using pathogenicity classification from ClinVar and several deep mutagenesis experiments. We found that EVmutation, a method that utilized multiple sequence alignments and utilizes deep learning, outperformed other predictors. However, this method was limited to 18% of the proteome. Where EVmutation is not defined, C-MIP outperformed other methods. We compiled a comprehensive evaluation framework of these methods across four independent datasets and highlight the performance of EVmutation and C-MIP for predicting variant impact on protein function. [link](https://eventpilotadmin.com/web/planner.php?id=ASHG19)

<object data="../pdf/ashg2019_poster.pdf" type="application/pdf" width="700px" height="700px">
    <embed src="../pdf/ashg2019_poster.pdf">
        <p> <ul> Link to poster: This browser does not support PDFs. Please download the PDF to view it: <a href="../pdf/ashg2019_poster.pdf">Download PDF</a>. </ul> </p>
    </embed>
</object>
